---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Git and Great Projects
---
## Git Basics

Learning about git basics in class was really eye opening because before
then, I was not aware of how it *really* worked besides the basic commands
I had to use for my classes beforehand. Whenever I use git, sometimes it
feels like if I do something wrong then I'd severely ruin whatever structure
I have, but now I feel a bit more confident after seeing it in action more.
Going over the working directory, staging area, and repository really helped
me visualize how git works. When I started using git, I was under the assumption 
that all I needed to do was use git commit, and everything would just magically show
up in a (remote) repository, aka Github. Using commands like git add, commit, 
and push eventually became natural to me at some point, but I still didn't know 
what exactly they did. I think understanding the process better now will really
help me out when it comes to figuring out issues that may come up while using
git, since I'll really know what's going on, where to look, and how to
do it this time. It was also really helpful learning new commands like reset, 
restore, checkout, etc. I did a little practice on my own to get more 
comfortable with using it, and will eventually do more to strengthen my 
skills in it.

## Open Source Projects

I was pleasantly surprised when viewing my peers' presentations on their
projects. They were all really creative in my opinion, and all have their
own unique ideas that make them interesting.

### Team 1: Color1ze 

I think this project is simple yet interesting. I like the color gradient
and think that if more features were added like controlling what colors
are used or the speed, then it could be a really fun extension to use
when you want to spice up text.

### Team 2: Virtual Pet

I really loved this project because it reminded me Tamagotchi's and other
virtual pet games. With some extra features added, I can really see a lot
of people using the extension as a fun little game to keep track of.

### Team 3: Website Time Tracker

This project is *very* useful, especially now when there's so many social
media sites that try to grab your attention from everywhere. If this project
gets more fleshed out, I really see it becoming popular.

### Team 4: Meowtivation

This is a cute project that I think is pretty useful for studying since
it's very easy to get stressed out over long studying periods, and having
a fun little break can't hurt.

### Team 5: Quick Notes

Like the website time tracker, I think this is very useful especially because
of its markdown and LaTex support. I could see myself using this in my previous
classes, where there were a lot of equations that were difficult to copy
down in a word processor.

### Team 6: I Did That

A simple, yet funny extension that I was most definitely not expecting to
see presented. I can see it being used in various memes, especially with 
the current political climate.

### Team 7: Browser Scroller

This one is extremely useful, and I could see it being used in offices
or places where information needs to be displayed like the presenters
said.

### Team 8: GitHelper

I like this one a lot, and would've definitely gotten good use out of it
when I was learning git. I think with adding a few more features and commands,
it could be a very powerful tool for beginners.

### Team 10: Currency Unit Converter

This is a great tool for those shopping on domains that have different 
currencies or just converting general things while surfing the internet.
I definitely see myself using this because there were many times where I 
had to convert things either manually or by opening a new tab to search 
the conversion.

## Takeaways

After working with a group, I definitely feel more comfortable in working
in that sort of setting. It helped me see how work should be balanced
and really helped with communication. Overall, all of the extensions presented
by my peers are really good and have real world applications. Given more time, 
these extensions can definitely grow into larger open source projects and 
can become used widely.




