---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Kicking Off Collaboration
---
### Project Progress 

My group and I have been making good progress on our project. We initially 
were going to go with a simple game of rock, paper, scissors as our 
extension, but ultimately decided that we wanted something with more 
utility. We all decided that making a pomodoro timer would be a good idea 
for an extension.<!--more-->

### Initial Problems

When we decided on what idea we were going to use, we wanted to get the 
functionality of the project done first, so we made sure that it worked 
well in an HTML page. However, it took us some time to figure out how to 
make it into a popup. Also, using GitHub and working collaboratively did 
halt progress at first, since not all of us were used to working on one 
repository. We're still learning the ins and outs of using git and GitHub,
but we've definitely gained good experience in using it.

### Positive Experiences

Once we did research on making extensions and working with time in 
JavaScript, we finished relatively faster than I thought we would, which is 
a good thing. We also were able to help each other out with things that 
we were not sure of like git and JavaScript, which I greatly appreciated.

### Contributions

My main contribution was the creation of the README, LICENSE,
CODE_OF_CONDUCT, and CONTRIBUTING files, so that the project would 
officially be open source. I also helped out with some of the JavaScript 
since I am familiar with the language, and also testing out the extension.

### Surprises
Some surprising things over the development of the project that I 
discovered about myself is that I thought I knew a little more about git, but I still had to look up how to do certain commands because I 
had forgotten, or just due to lack of experience. In contrast, I started to 
warm up to JavaScript and remembered how to use it after not using it for a 
while. Things like updating the time were a bit confusing at first, but I 
was able to understand it eventually.

### Overall Experience

I think this was a great exercise in working together on a project, 
especially since there were a lot of things I was unfamiliar with like git 
and working with extensions. I feel that I'll be more confident in tackling 
code contributions to open source projects as the semester goes on. 