---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - More Presentations
---

## Intro

So far we have had many groups make their presentations. I found all of them to be interesting because they showed the different aspects of contributions that are important to an open source project, not just code. A common challenge that many groups faced is that making code contributions were difficult, especially because there are a lot of rules and guidelines when contributing to repositories. <!--more--> Here are some that I found interesting:

## Lucide

This project was interesting to me because it was art based. Lucide focuses on open source icons. I liked this group since they made many unique icon contributions. Alongside making icons, the group also contributed to the website. It was really interesting hearing about the various guidelines for the vector based icons, which make sense since they are supposed to be very scalable. Some challenges this group faced were getting acquainted with those guidelines since they got some of their designs rejected before. I asked the group members if they had an easier time with the web contributions or the icon contributions. They responded that it was actually easier to the the web contributions as there weren't as many restrictions. Overall, I found this project interesting as it was a lot different from the other projects in the class. 

## Oppia

Oppia was a very popular project in this class since three groups were contributing to it. It is a learning platform that anyone can contribute to. I also found this one interesting because the main source of contributions were not always code contributions, there were also a lot of translation contributions too. I think it was a good thing that translations were added, because in projects like these it's important to have more accessibility since many people will be using them.

## Mattermost

Mattermost is a chat service which is similar to Slack. I found it interesting that the whole group had their own issues with Slack and found that this project fit their preferences because they could fix what they did not like with services like Slack. This group also made their own translations, which is especially important with a chat application that would need it since people from around the world will be communicating with it. 