---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Intro to Open Source
---

## My Thoughts on Open Source
When I hear the term of "open source", I think of software that has its
source code widely available and free to use for anyone who wants to. I
also tend to think of large collaborative projects and projects that
deviate or add a twist to the source. Some advantages to open source is the
development of new ideas and assistance with code writing. Many big
projects would not exist today if it were not for passionate people who
helped out in these open source projects. 

Although open source is great for development, closed source can be
beneficial for projects that want to be more focused or that want to avoid
code or idea theft. It is very easy for someone to see a unique idea or
efficient code and claim it as their own, leaving the original developers
without the credit they deserve. Plagiarism/lack of sufficient credit can 
be a huge problem with open source if not addressed correctly. Code 
inconsistency can also be an issue since multiple developers with varying 
levels of skill would be contributing to one project, and some issues may 
go unaccounted for.

I registered for a class about open source software development because 
open source software is extremely important to the development of newer and 
better ideas, and I want to be more knowledgeable in this field to 
contribute on my own. 

Here are some open source projects that I have used/influenced me:

## Blender
Blender is a 3D computer graphics software that allows you to create 
models, animations, etc. I use Blender occasionally as I am learning 3D 
modeling and will most likely start to use it more often as I become more 
experienced. 

## LMMS
LMMS is a Digital Audio Workstation(DAW) that allows you to make music and 
was originally designed for Linux, but is available on other platforms now. 
I use it quite frequently to make my own music, and was the reason why I 
got started. 

## Android (OS) 
Android is a mobile operating system made by Google. Since my phone is a 
Samsung, I'm always using the Android operating system. I like it alot 
since it allows you to make any tweaks to the UI or most features if you 
want to.

## Python 
Python is a programming language that is very useful. I have used multiple
times during my academic career and even a bit in my personal life to 
automate small things in the past.